all right I think Jimmy is already here
all right
so start recording people yes all right
so here here we are again and hi
everyone so we are here to discuss a few
a few I mean just one topic of that
entity which is wish or the first yadi
method that will embrace is very
important and we need to come up with
with a decision on these subjects
because we will not be able to embrace
two or three guiding methods as the
first as the first one because it will
require more work so we need to make a
decision it's very important for us to
feel safe in terms of the first having
method to adopt so the first the first
thing that we need to consider is that
we have three candidates and I'm already
going to the agenda so this is the first
topic imagine and in terms of the
discussion which is decide the first
element we have IP ie you port and block
stack so sorry so a quick quick question
this or a note-taker
do you want me to take notes or someone
else yeah yeah please if anyone can
volunteer to take notes it would be
awesome anyway if you if anyone and if
everyone doesn't you know want to take
notes we can take notes afterwards by
watching the video yeah I came back in
time to take notes and alright so in
terms of the three candidates IP ID is
at the ID method based on IP FS more
specifically it uses IP ns
in order to add mutability so
essentially you have your D ID and your
D ID I'm gonna write here as an example
you know the ID will be something like
the ID ID ID and your and your the hash
of your public key after a Kanis entry
or your appeared
so this is this is based on IP ID
specification which is was created by
Johnny crunch and it's really simple
basically you point user pin has to
point to a different version of the ID
documents and in a document for people
that don't know already I can head here
an example short example so we have a
list of public is it's not really like
that but imagine something like this and
also you have an important field called
authentication I think that's the
correct property where you state if he
is communication for instance I can say
that this one and this one can't can or
may be used for authentication so
essentially this data method is based on
ffs an openness and whenever you need to
need to mature to the document you
create the document put it on that the
first you have this ID and then you say
okay these are penis entry now points to
the new Sally
that's basically it they show with this
approach and that's one of the points of
the penis key gets compromised basically
get the warranty recover because the key
is actually part of the D ID itself
another that the ID will be different
itself so we can really recover master
key let's install like that is
compromised but before that need to make
a decision and we met to adopt we also
have Newports inbox tag you port is a
project that that is this is and it uses
date here
good taste but I'm sorry you're you're
cutting cutting out cutting off not the
end abutments and I think they're to the
ID documents on
[Music]
my mention it is is a bit a bit laggy I
think that alright
perhaps you and I could you turn off
yeah I will turn off my video
okay sorry can can you hear me now
pillow yes okay all right
so I do not turn off MA
we also have your party box tech and by
consensus late
but um they basically used the
blockchain to issues changes to the DNA
documents and I think the document is
actually stored on ipfs I'm not sure but
I'm most certain that it is and on the
blockchain they each simply stored the
pointer to the D ID document which is
stored on activists and also we have
block stack the Bitcoin network as well
and is also the unlimited metal as well
but all right if if we're gonna rock
stack we need to understand that I play
D I uses IP NS and we need a penis to be
stable and be reliable and be
performance and by talking to a few
people on the lipid to be and also the
FS projects some concerns were raised in
terms of those topics like performance
instability so we invite Fusco to this
discussion it's contributing to the LEP
to be on the JavaScript side so if if
puzzle vasco could you give your
feedback and potential solutions to to
the performance and reliability issues
that IP IG @i p NS has at the moment
yeah okay can you hear me well yes okay
so small update in the current state of
IP nests in the next release options ffs
there is the 0 to 35 will hopefully
after dick cheney employed by default
and also interrupt probably to idea fest
which essentially is necessary for you
to use i pianist however i penis is
still not performance and the biggest
bottleneck is as we identified in the
lipid to be teamwork is the DHT
performance both in go ingest but we
currently
do not have benchmarks about how much
time we take that's one of the things
that we will hopefully do in a near
future however now the most efficient
way of using Ibanez in JavaScript and
the Austin goal is enabling the - over
web self and using only the DHT for
persistence which may be a way for you
to start if you want to use I pianist
and in our plans for the future
regarding ID - will mainly be working on
two major things to improve its during
2019 first as as go ipfs current list
supports we will implement a streaming
API in JSON as well this will occur
during hopefully this quarter when we
migrate the code base to a sink it's
writers and I will prioritize I pianist
in the HT in my tasks if you decide to
go with a penance then after having this
short term goal to improve the high
administer forums we aim to default due
to as we decided during the team week
will about all the DSD issues that we
have and some of them are really
critical at way even in though for
anything from front before the launch so
during the q2 during this quarter we
intend to have a plan on how to improve
the DHT and with this plan we tend to
operate it during q2 but we don't say
eff the plan yet so we don't exactly
know how long it'll take but the current
point is to have IP NS / DHT and more
performant DHT
by the end of q2
any questions yeah let's say that
let's create a scenario let's create the
best possible scenario
right now like let's say that I have a
good connection and I'm already
connected to a lot of peers and I decide
to make a change to my opinion century
to point to another it's something else
do you have some kind of benchmarks
right now in terms of the current state
of the implementation how many seconds
that it was it take for milliseconds is
it take to change try to propagate the
change we don't currently have
benchmarks but from my experiencing
testing it if we have the the HTN able
and we are running the daemon for a
while as it sig is getting more and more
connections we end up carrying I don't
know maybe at least two or three minutes
to publish into resolve which I think a
lot for your disguises so you said
minutes correct
you said two to three minutes yes
exactly
all right so that's quite a lot and you
know the speed of the fetch operation
I can read operation does it take also
that amount of the time yes but as I are
experienced with the openness over bed
so but so that's I said that's the best
way for you to start because in the end
I've been a thief uni-ball I've been
honest over pub so basically you will
subscribe to the topics that you want
and you will receive in real time the
the updates so you are subscribing
all the modifications of happiness
record the first time it will take a lot
because it will need to fetch it from
the DHD but afterwards you can fetch it
whenever you want and it you will have a
local a local record of the attack - key
in your in your note but yes you need to
have the pubsub enabled for that
happened but and publish will take a lot
- if you need so what are you saying is
that resolving
is faster if we're ready resulted in the
past the publishing already takes what
takes the same two to three minutes in
the best listeners yep on the I'm not
sure exactly how its implemented on the
JavaScript side we're on the go side
something Vasco and I were talking about
was on the go side they have streaming
implementation so the way that I pns
works is it basically goes and tries to
fetch I think something like sixteen
different copies of the key from
throughout the DHT which is why it takes
so long
um but the idea of the streaming
protocol is that it will return those to
you one by one as they come in rather
than waiting for all sixteen to arrive
so if we do if we use streaming then it
should be a lot faster yes that will be
our first approach and we hopefully will
have that in for you for q1 by Jane of Q
but even using the there is for instance
the that guys from open Bazaar that made
a modification of Goering only a single
DHT record which is way faster but also
has problems about synchronization and
if we end up providing the stream API
there is also to be considered that from
your side you will need you will need to
decide which will be the best record
there is the most recent I guess yeah
that's a good point
it's obviously trade-off between sort of
confidence or security and much like
when you're when you're putting a new
block onto the blockchain you have to
wait a while to to decide how secure you
feel that it is yeah yeah I would say
that in terms of the trade-offs between
security and performance we are more
inclined to the security side because we
are dealing with you know the ID isn't
getting documents that must be in the
sense that we can't really lose
information or at least make an effort
to not lose information so let's
consider a scenario scenario where you
have two public keys headed to your D ID
document if one one the computer or
device updates the type in s records but
pointing to a D ID document that doesn't
have the full previous keys it will be
an issue so we have to consider that's
now and perhaps there are so other
solutions or other extra steps on top of
the string API that we can implement in
order to make it more secure as well as
performance that's why we are here to
discuss Iran that something it's in
terms of security itself I think the the
the apenas implementation always
authenticates the the airplanes if I'm
not wrong if I'm wrong please correct me
a matter of security selfies more matter
of safety in a sense that longer you
wait the longer the more the last
probability you have of having a stale
document out there that you don't tell a
version out there that you don't know
about is that correct
but yes it's correct you it is all
already authenticated but you can end up
having an outdated records so we go for
sixteen of them and check we have a
function that verifies which one is the
best and returns only the best can I
make a question also about the inner
workings of up in a penis so there I
believed the the the record has Latinas
record has a sequence number right that
is tend to be is monotonic it increases
one on each update but that's true for
the same device if you up do have the
same key on two different devices the
same happiness on two different devices
and do concurrent polish you will end up
with a dish synchronization right yes we
currently support more or less that type
of use case where you can if you can
share keys because we didn't work and
spec it yet because as we do not have
from now at least a secure way of
exchanging peers between peers we are
not at least officially supporting that
and there are there can be some miss
behaviors and that will be one of them
because when we get when we publish a
new one we basically check our local
data store gets the root the most recent
that we published and basically
increment a sequence number so it will
fail in two devices correct and that's
also in parallel with work that Dirk has
been doing in like a long-standing pull
request on peer base for instance for
multi writer I can as emulation like
right so there there's also some
I wouldn't say workarounds but some if
two peers right to the same I pianist
key there could be some way of merging
those concurrent changes together yeah
that was a one I'm gonna suggest if it's
possible to think about and so on a
solution that I will solve the root e
writer scenario of including concurrent
updates much like the the things we are
dealing with with charities and so on or
deck deck pointers it will solve the
problem that we are having yes I would
say regarding that that we probably
could open an issue and you know maybe
in the IP and aspect and from there we
could also discuss with Stalin because I
I talked with him a while ago about this
and the conclusion that we had at the
moment was that as we didn't ever
concrete use case for this we ended up
delaying thinking about how we would
solve that problem do you have any idea
on having like a side chain for this
like think about think about type ans as
a block chain in the sense that it is
the source of the truth but is slow and
and so on could you have like a side
suite and or a side chain that we could
more be more real-time in terms of
peptides and there won't be any
conflicts and then we polish to the IP
NS entry and the the result of the
merging itself
I think there we have been discussing
this since since the ipfs ipfs weekend
in Glasgow there's me some back and
forth so I think the consensus was that
happiness wasn't design itself to be
multi device or multi multi peer and so
yes any any solution that we have would
have to be on on on top of that there do
remember those those conversations on
what's the status of the multi well I
know you weren't there but you've been
doing some we have that fresher in in
your mind perhaps what's your answer was
a while ago I think that basically the
solution that you you and I Pedro were
talking about was it was more like
detecting after the fact if there's been
a collision and then right you know
eventually if we use a CRT CITT type
model that it should all converge but it
yeah it doesn't feel like a fantastic
solution to be honest right so there was
also some comfort yeah I guess so I
remember a bit now you would have a
leader and one of the two peers that
shares that ipsp would be responsible at
any given time for the updating so even
if you have like a sidechain per device
one of the peers would be an either
explicitly or implicitly be like the
leader using friendly for instance
leader election or implicit leader
assignment and and that leader would be
responsible for updating the happiness
entry with the official version do you
deal with split reign scenarios in their
Inglis solution
does think Dirk we have been discussed I
think there is an issue that would have
been is not exactly discussing we've
been assessing that for persistence for
persistence of charity itself but I
think the problem is is the same once
you have a split brain there were a
bunch of scenarios that that will emerge
I think we will describe some of those
scenarios Dirk yes so so we were sort of
thinking about it in the context of
persistence as you say and so we kind of
like added a layer on top which was to
have leadership election so obviously if
you have a single leader then that's
your your single writer so that sort of
adapts itself to the IP n s scenario
with a single writer right but then you
as you say Andre there's a problem where
if you get this split brain and two
leaders can start overwriting each other
so it turns out it's possible to detect
when that's happening and so if you
detect one of them backs off and
eventually you'll get into a consistent
state so that I think was eventually
where we landed all right so just to
further and give importance to this
matter even even I mean this problem
that we are having like multi right of
scenario is not only strictly associated
with like ENS and sorry to IP ad because
we have have a discussion about identity
profile and we've if we opt for using IP
FS to store the identity profile and so
on we'll also have these kind of
problems like I I in multiple devices
can edit my profile and we'll deal with
multi writer scenarios and conflicts and
so on so it will make probably make
sense to solve this in an agnostic way
and in some moments or low-level library
that we call who use in this and this -
IP ID method and also for other use
cases as you said
on your side on pure bass persistence
and also on on letting people file does
it make sense yes something I guess it
makes it makes sense to solve it on on
lower layers of course and to do
conflict conflict resolution you could
do automated using using do it
automatically using an acidity and then
you can expose the view the view of the
strategy as the GID document itself to
the to the upper layer I'm wondering
whether this mechanism is is something
that well that for the first situation
that should we need to have this making
this multi writer multi writer
capability or could we like default to
something like if we detect them by will
detect conflicts and then we alert the
user or something because the user will
be the same user right it would be the
same human correct correct
yeah in this case it's more focused and
and we can end up with more specific
solution for those conflicts it's true
you know it won't be user friendly but
yes you can make compromises because if
for instance in a device you detect that
two concurrent versions with the same
sequence number that has different betas
they're different data then we we could
defer to the user to resolve to do to
one of them well you could always store
as charity and it will be automatically
merge of all the thing is that we
the GID document itself will not unless
I'm I'm wrong about it the LED document
itself being a CR DT is the reality is a
complex data structure is not that the
ID documents so it does not conform to
the GID spec and if you started sanity
they don't unhappiness for later
conflict resolution and so it will not
have the you know it will not be
presentable before races people that are
using a PL D to navigate or if using the
absolutely inspector
for instance they will not be able to
inspect GID document that's not a
problem at least what the spec says is
that the resolver of the ID method must
return the value added a large and
there's actually many native methods
that use a more kind of operational
strategy not not really but similar for
instance you port is exploring with
shipper di D methods based on ETA as
well that they use in the sense that
they use the events capability of smart
contracts to reconstruct the whole Yeley
document so instead of storing the di D
document the holy document in each
operation you just store the question
itself like I've added this public key
I've removed these authentication key
and so on and then what they do is they
read the whole events are fired by the
smart contracts and reconstruct the ID
documents based on those events so it
will be similar to that sense our if you
end up going by that approach okay in
terms of the resolver it will return the
correct element but the implementation
itself it's not complete
it must be miss query all the tag nodes
and so on law has you are yeah I think
that improving when in the DHT is
performance is improved it seems
noble plan for me the one that you
described well my question is how does
how does the resolver find all the
pieces yeah so basically let's this is
like one possible implementation so
basically you will let's say I'll see in
the documents on quick pan yes you have
it open like in divine 30 you have the
ID ID ID and afterwards you have the IPS
public key so basically it won't query
that type in s key and it will give you
not to the ID document but a CID or a
set of C IDs that's point tools to a
deck node that has the last operation
and that the leg node itself points to
the previous operation and so on and
then what we basically do is so resolve
all those like the deck nodes based on
their partial order and then use like a
tiebreaker or something like that to
break the tie so you end up with a shine
of tagged nodes that are like operations
and you in the end you you have the ID
documents based on those operations
basically does it make sense it does but
I think you still have the same problem
where you have to figure out how to
point to the end of the chain yeah and
you might end up having you know
overwriting your own ends yeah the I
penis and multi right scenario he sees a
problem
he doesn't solve the problem at all this
is like just implementation yourself now
we need we need still to resolve the
multi writer scenario so yeah we need to
like the multi writer scenario needs to
hand at the fact that might have we
might have multiple hats and we must
store them reliably so that we don't
lose any ads when doing concurrent
updates
so to summarize if the way that this
would work would so if you come up with
their concurrence and divergence
Authority a concurrent two concurrent
versions of the same Vig document by
querying the DHT you get to do two
concurrent versions and then you would
merge them correct right so we have to
use you see well how can you reliably
store the pointers or the heads of the
diagonals concurrently let that's a
different problem
so let's say that I I'm off offline or
partially offline and in another device
I'm fully online and I make a change
like I approve a device on both devices
and other device both will point to a
new head and we must write to that to
the IP NS injury right how can we deal
with that yeah currently a penis is one
writer wins okay or-or-or is random so
what happens we did not know what about
the new working so happiness but how
does any nodes handle storing two
concurrent versions so if for instance
there is version 5 and then it gets an
update from someone that oh this is
actually this is the the version 5 and
we have now you have that two concurrent
so it will not update right yes
basically you the entity that publishes
I penis record it also so it besides
sending it to the network it stores it
in the in the local data store as well
and basically there is two different
case when which is supposed to be kept
locally and another one which is used
for the routing in in order to
understand every time what supposedly it
was the last published one but only
so if when we look for the key in the
network the the key will be different
from the local one and the Pires hasn't
a notion of if that the record has been
published by another peer or not okay I
think maybe the only solution here is
for us to have a different kind of
operation so let's imagine it's a DHT so
in the DHT we have a right and a read
operation and what we really need is a
merge operation
but but demur the merge operation would
not write in the local that's a store of
the beer that's previously published the
data
well what I'm imagining is that it would
it would imagine any new changes in that
way you could keep track of concurrent
heads and then you could resolve them so
the problem now is that you can't
you're always overwriting what's there
instead of looking at what's there and
merging something into it so you can
keep track of concurrent heads that make
sense I'm I'm not sure because the DHD
itself does not have idea of the techies
that are used in the IP NS because the
the DHT just receives foot puts and gets
in Myr and eventually merges but the
it's received previously imagined put
from the IP NS module and all the Ibanez
module also made it puts to the local
data store which is like in a different
place from the DHT but how's that does
the HT handle style updates for instance
to make making sure that I know that has
been offline for some time does not try
to overwrite an entry okay basically
when when you query the the DHT it gets
those 16 records across the network and
it as that function which selects which
one of the 16 records are the best is
the best one and from there if are there
if they are different it's okay this one
is the best
I will broadcast now these two the
remaining beers that told me that they
had record but it is outdated and all of
them updates the new one all right one
question is if there's no 60 pure peers
this is the operation file I think so
I'm not sure all right so that basically
gives us some guarantee in the sense
that if the new peer is really behind
and tries to update the record and the
new records there's an inner attackers
actually that new record will be
published instead right so so after the
operation the the peer can query again
in terms of fetching the record and if
it's different from what he published it
means that he was out of date and and
his operation was kind of denies correct
I'm not sure if I understand your
question
I can I can we find so let's say that we
have a and B peers that have the same I
pianist I want to play the same my penis
entry all right so let's say that the
first year is very cold and and it's
very behind in terms of the the the
whole network and is offline right now
alright and the nuclear the new pure the
second pure publishes a new record and
after some time I like that let's say
one month the first beer gets back
online and immediately tries to publish
a new Hecker's alright there's the new
record goes true or does it get denied
because the second peer is actually
published something before that isn't
that the first we didn't know about it
goes through it goes through all right
so that kind of sucks I think in the
implementation if I remember correctly
they actually fetch the sequence number
before writing to the network
and I think we don't do that in
JavaScript but I can't shake yeah the
problem with that is that it's very slow
yeah so what are you saying is that the
co implementation actually fetches the
the dead monotonic incrementation number
or increment number and if it meets
mismatches it pays files right well
it'll it'll increment it so it'll go and
get the latest data including the
sequence number then it'll override an
increment any you know if that's C
that's something that is visible from
the consumers of the they go we p2p
because we know that the increment the
information the implementation was not
monotonic like I said it was two to
three times then we might assume okay
this is what this was a concurrent
update so I must do something else I
need to fetch the previous versions and
to emerge like if that was visible could
do something like that um our I've been
wondering if we could use something like
peer ways to solve the CR DT part and
then we publish the what we publish to
the to type in s record would be will be
the the result of the seriality value I
don't know if that looks reasonable for
for to solve the solution yeah that's
that's kind of what I was trying to get
to with the persistence protocol and so
that was that was certainly on my mind
as well I think probably a Dean has some
had some clear ideas of where he would
like to go with this as well all right
all right so basically that come off DS
was that vasco hopes to have see if he
can improvements on the performance of
of IP IE and i've happy
sorry and also we might we need to come
up with a solution for the multi writer
scenario there are there were been a few
candidates for this I think we need to
you know think of you think of it a
synchronously and and also maybe maybe
comment on the under issue few proposals
to solve this because we need to there
are some other problems that we need to
tackle on this discussion and we have
about 50 minutes and I would like to
address another concern that I have so
we have another problem of IP ID which
is basically because you're the ID is
composed by the hash of your public key
it means that if your private key is
compromised that the one that used
update record gets compromised somehow
essentially you're the IDS the whole
identity is compromised it you can
really recover it because the ID itself
contains the private key so you can
solve the public key so this means that
you can can simply issue another one
because the rdid will be different it is
does it make sense to anyone so that we
are in the same page
that's all right so I've been think
about a few solutions to this problem
and we have the first solution that that
I've listed here it's not really a
solution it's more like something that
we force to two users
so basically because this is an issue it
means that there are cleanest private
key the private key that used to play
type in s record needs to be kept safe
and away from the devices so it's
actually on the first time that user ID
M we construct the the private key and
this is another question
Vasko can we construct a penis privately
ourselves or is it something that is
built-in and we don't really have an
option to create it yes basically if you
if you
start at least in the CLI I think the
HTTP it should be the same if you start
the demon with new key if for instance
you use the ipfs key generate and
generate your own key and afterwards you
start the demon and you map like that
the key that you want to use is dead key
instead of the key from the period cell
right then you can use it all right
because my solution was to use Shamu
secret Charlene so basically we have 12
words that we can use to reconstruct the
private key so basically the devices
wouldn't have the the die penis private
key almost never and and once it's
needed because it's least needed to
update the deity documents we ask for a
few of those words in order to
reconstruct the private key temporarily
issue an update on the DNA found on the
records on the penis record and and
delete it afterwards so it's something
like temporary imagine like in terms of
the user interface you are guided to
throughout the creation of your identity
and in the final step it will be
something like okay you have to store
these words in order to recover your
identity please make sure that you you
have those words written somewhere and
safely stored because you they will be
deleted and once the user clicks next it
will be prompted again to confirm and
then we do it so this is basically the
solution number one so does it make
sense or is there any doubts and this is
the part I guess the technical
technically make sense it's not very
friendly yeah yeah exactly so the issue
is whenever you need to add a new device
or revoke a device you need to prompt
for the the the percentage a certain
percentage of those twelve words we see
is not very easy Frank Lloyd Wright
there's something to consider which is
the the the the amount of times that you
adding a new device and removal device
we move a device is not that frequent
but I still not use a friend
so I've been thinking about another
solution and the solution number two
which is a layered key solution so let
me try to explain and and bear in mind
that it might take some time to throw it
in the center but I will try to explain
so essentially it's similar to the
solution one in the sense that we have a
private key that controls the records -
records but that apenas record doesn't
point to the heads or to the DA
development itself it points to another
IP NS record right and that that second
record is controlled by a layer 2 IPS
private key and that's second openness
records actually points to the heads or
to do to the D ID document what these
gives has is that we can have the second
layer key shared among devices so that
we can easily add a new device to that
that list because we are in the control
of the idea of unit cells but whenever
we need to really book a new device we
need to basically generate a new layer
to open s key disseminated to to all the
devices except the ones that except the
one that we are kicking out and and
lastly we applied the layer 1 P pointing
to the to the second to the new second
layer to key so in terms of user
friendly it's very easy to add new
devices imagine like even even the add
new device could be like simply pairing
with the key our codes because we can
leverage
EFS and pub/sub x12
imagine you are creating a new device or
say that setting up IDM on a new device
and you already have IDM on another
device and you can select from which
device you want to import or set up and
you click on that device and
we need to scan that QR code and the
second layer key will be encrypted and
passed to the new device so it will it
will be shared among devices now does it
make sense because it's something quite
complex
does anyone have any doubts or well I
think I think I decided yeah all right
so in the key points is that is more
secure in the sense that you don't need
you need the delay one key there often
you just need when we're walking device
and we still have and it's more user
friendly because you can you can scan
care codes you can always ask for the
twelve words fall from the lair to key
and which is you know good for the user
experience when Perry in your device but
when you are provoking a device you need
to prompt for those twelve words or at
least a percentage of those of words so
this is another solution what do you
think about about it in general
I have to think about what about that
some more time helps offline yeah sure
right yes yeah Multi multi layer keys I
[Music]
think but when is you you always store
only the second layer when you want to
revoke make sense yeah yes so so the
busy the the thing is that the layer one
key is not stored on the devices it's
actually stored temporarily until you
back it back it up like imagine in IBM
you have like a a warning sign hey you
need to backup your these disturb words
or also like that when was it's done
then the like one key is completed you
just start by you or you can even
disseminate the words to your friend and
so on and then the delay to key is
actually what it's stored on the devices
in order to easily have new devices
that's basically it well also also the
the concept of master key and and device
key and session key is still the same
basically the master key is composed by
a two-layer p alright the device key
still exists in the concept of the IDM
and so on it's not mixed with what we
are discussing here we are discussing
the master key the master key is a two
layer approach kit basically okay okay
so the when you are resolving the key
key you need to the two IPS lookups
right correct that's why I asked about
the performance of you know fetching
operations because it might influence
the solution so if it takes like four
minutes to read records from from I know
that has and didn't and woke up yet it's
basically it basically makes me this
side okay we're not gonna do this ship
well it may not be so bad because as you
say you're not going to
change the layer one key very often and
you know this as I was saying you can
use pub/sub to kind of like once you've
fished it once then you can kind of just
keep an eye on it and it'll update in
real time you know and then we have a
solution tree which honestly I didn't
quite understand the solution there it
was proposed by a team but but I mean I
really did like a few times already and
and I couldn't really understand what he
what he mean a means with the custom
validator and so on so perhaps if you
could help me out understand what what
we try what he's trying to express there
it will be awesome
you
I think what it's saying is that there's
like a way that you can kind of flag
that a that's something has been
invalidated so if you you check this key
and if there's a value at the key that
means that what you thought was valid is
no longer valid
I think that's what it's saying all
right but how does it solve them
the compromise key in terms of like my
private key used to AppliTrack work was
compromised how does it solve that
because the the the hash of the public
key is your D ID so you can't really
know I think this is also a kind of tool
a key scenario where this is only delay
to key that's being compromised yeah I
also thought about that perhaps what
he's trying to say something like by a
custom validator is if maybe points to a
layer key or something like that to
validate those scenarios but it's not I
mean it's not very clear anyway
we are doing the recording hepcidin
could clarify bit on on what she tried
to explain there later later on so in
terms of the the whole topic was to
decide on the first year method and we
already discussed on a few problems of
IP ID and and there is also another
possibility which is important in box
tack I wouldn't go for block stack
because while they are well while they
are taking technically using the ID
methods or sorry they are technically
technically at the ID method they don't
really come they aren't really compliant
with the spec right now and secondly
when I tried it and they didn't expose
the ID documents itself though so
especially the libraries that they
supply don't mean really give us control
over that
on the contrary Newport's has a core
library that's basically they use in
their mobile app and other scenarios so
usually have all the tools to create
your port identities and many played
tennis as we see fit and so we still we
still be facing those those two
scenarios like you port or IP ID do you
have like a strong opinion on if you
should go to truth throughout a PD or
Newport solution is the first Yeti
method or not well I guess I guess you
have some experience with you port
that's a pro for for using you port I
guess I PID is not very complex unless
you start dropping into the multi device
problem so if you want to attack multi
device problem from the get-go I guess
you port is more prepared for that
otherwise I would if you you don't want
to start with the multi device I would
start with without Kathy because it's
very simple it is good to exercise to be
good to exercise I P&S itself but if
well I guess it would be hard to change
the plain Nyepi ID into using a
multi-layered key approach so there is
also a cost of migrating into some sort
of multi-layered key or approach I'm not
sure it depends a bit on the use case
right because like for example Bitcoin
you know if you lose your key you just
lost you know a million dollars or in my
case ten dollars but people will sort of
learn to accept that for that particular
use case so
maybe it's okay to develop that as as a
starting point if it's simple just this
for that particular use case where
there's no key replication or anything
and then to create more complex kinds of
identity further down the line I agree
if we if we could if if you could layer
identities like like like you have the
device identity and I know that you've
been thinking a lot about this so device
keys and then session keys and then the
master key on top of those but if you
could layer in terms of their the
software architecture you could layer
like there is device keys and that has
its own happiness if you lose it you're
the device is compromised and later if
you want to like have a master identity
that brings those together perhaps they
could be added later yeah I mean think
about this in terms of the solution one
versus the solution 2 by doing the
solution 1 we aren't really saying that
we are gonna have solution to in the
future because those are our evolving
specs and we can have virtually of the
specs so essentially the the spec of the
IP IP ID can evolve and the software the
code itself can in may and should handle
different versions let's say that time
we resolving these IP ID this is the ID
pointing to a I pay the high court I've
been a cycle I should be able to see the
version and by looking at the version I
should buy I can fork connect Forks in
terms of code to handle those different
scenarios so we could start for by
having the solution one which is really
simple it doesn't have many many of the
issues we're gonna discussing but bear
in mind that the solution 1 has some
implications in terms of the Y and X
because having any new device is really
cumbersome it's not not really
straightforward in terms of the user
experience you have to type words and
stuff like that even even
now what what I was saying is that is
that yeah I understand but a new device
would be in you and Yuki and you
identity no that's not not great but if
the and and nothing would have to think
about this a bit but if you could layer
make it so that it doesn't compromise
future multi multi level device
solutions like first you only have
device key and laterally so first we
have player and I add iPhone X and later
you can have one dry that has multiple
devices because the demo
the multi-device problem or revoking a
device or is like a complex very complex
issue okay as we should
yeah I mean it's not that complex is
that it just the specs for the
revocation lists or the public keys that
were revoked are kind of flexible
because they don't really specify this
type of structure for that but
especially in terms of the technical
side what we have to do is and taking
taking or assuming that we already have
a solution for the multi writer scenario
but we may have to do is take that -
record update to version of the document
that doesn't contain the public key and
that was compromised and and also make
it available throughout there
impatiently so essentially if I carry
the reification list it will be also
beheaded that key will be added to that
that list and all the signatures made
prior to that moment are valid and all
the signatures made afterwards will be
invalid or discarded and also alter the
idea of that happens with the P that was
revoked will be will fail basically so
it's not really complex it's just that
the multi writer scenario and also the
master key is necessary for this
operation okay understood
basically whenever you need to mu take
the document you need to you need the
master key that's the thing but with
some clever tricks like the layer two or
the two layers approach for the misaki
the master key can be disseminated to
the throttle devices because you really
have last resorts private key to revoke
all the others basically and to get back
control of the pilot and and yeah
whatever that might help is that what
resides in in this public profile
because if it's just
cryptographic material the public hands
you for free we don't need to applet
that often it's just when adding a new
device or removing a device right and
it's all the rest is stored separately
and it's like sauce over there everyone
has as control over which parties
receive those the receives those
certificate so the credentials on Friday
but yes this is like a separate thing of
course it's related but it can be
thought out separately I figure out how
often half of new you you will have to
update those those documents it's just
whenever you add a new device or revoke
any device and maybe if you later change
let's say cafe alike or identity have a
like service that you want to associate
to your identity you may also need your
master key so that your daddy document
has a property called services that
points that has an entry there pointing
to your cafe alike or identity have like
instance God so when you want to add one
okay yeah and F or evoke as well
basically whenever you need to multi to
the VP I did not come to me do and need
the master key of your get even right
which is you know it's not very often
love me you say that that it's not not
too bad to have a paper key epic a
first-person one yeah yeah I mean you
can we can do that as the first version
so that we don't really get locked in in
a complex solution and so on and later
on when we have everything working I
mean the ideas and with our credentials
and an identity profiles and the IDM
itself we might think
on improving to to have like a version 2
with the thule approach or something so
we can in Canada but but I mean the the
multi writer is still a problem on both
scenarios because because your your key
will be needed to update the document
but there might be some conflicts
conflicts if you you know have
concurrent updates for instance whenever
you use any M of wine to change
something or to approve a device about
that and and then you also approval
device on an order device and anyway we
concurrent applied that's correct
one is not too bad the multi-multi
writer I guess since the spec doesn't
require you to store the plain text of
the Jenny document if you could start a
disparity that can later be merge at the
edges I think that problem can be
mitigated because what you would end up
is like if a device is offline some
changes are made when it comes offline
some concurrent changes can be happening
but he will detect that it will merge it
will create a new entry and the cycle
repeats again and true until we get we
get a eventually get a get a intricacies
of course into persistent states so I
guess that that would be yeah ok yeah I
probably will be the solution that we
will use and also we can leverage
simpler solution to the connectivity
things such thing because whenever you
you update your approval device one like
that and you are all fine we can
leverage some UI language saying hey you
didn't synchronize your this device
somehow you need to be online for it to
synchronize something useful for is when
you're adding a device for when they
have multiple devices that you have some
information on pairing or
synchronization status of yeah the
replication you'll need that for the
identity profile then that's something
that we'll be discussing on Friday but
essentially all the identity profile
your name your photo and all the
information they personal information
that you have including your social
proof will be have to have to be
synchronized and replicated so whenever
you set up a new device and attack like
six of the twelve words and you you know
have a new device working on you need to
replicate that stuff net that is a
process that we must this must be
intuitive for the user and so on okay
okay and oh my god I have to run
yeah all right me too so outcome of this
is meeting first we need to probably
discuss using CR et oh sorry probably
we're gonna use gr DET to solve the
multi writer scenario I will discuss if
we need of you're gonna use periods are
similar to that and also the CR DT
itself like the merging resolution is
what was really gonna be stored on the D
on the leg nodes either the full
document or just adds and then we have a
resolving part and for in terms of them
there's the solutions one two or three
we're gonna stick with the first one for
now which is the paper key and later on
we will evolve the spec in order to be
more secure in the front right correct I
added those those note take aways all
right that's enough for me because I
know can focus on the solution one and
both in terms of code and also user
experience and from the multi write a
scenario I will think about how can you
use this realities and also how the
state will be stored on the deck nodes
if it's the full Jason or if just the
operations and anyway I will come up
with something wrong on get up and we'll
discuss these seem to a synchronized
with yeah correctly correct the charity
just a quick note for the charity if you
want to keep track of who did what at
which time for instance you will
probably end up with the operation based
yeah scenario if you just want to merge
stage you probably end up with a state
based charity I think using the receive
spear base things unless you want to
provide the network for application
layer for forget that snare for this
because you know whenever you add a
device you need to store the list of
devices somewhere because whenever you
go to another device and your buddies
boots up and synchronizes you will see
the same two devices listed listed there
in both devices it's correct and you
never everyone all the devices won't see
that new device it should feel real time
and and which will have a replication
protocol and this is the same for that
it's the profile
whenever you read it something like your
name and so on it should be replicated
among all the devices and there's
encryption going on and some some things
that we also need to discuss on Friday
weighted to the security of this alright
awesome but I mean it was good because I
already have some decisions on this and
also perhaps whether if we go to the way
to pursue the operation based back to
you know resolved the food options
perhaps it might might make sense to
take versamark and extract the writing
of the diagnose and resolve part in term
or into abstract module so that I can
use that here and now subversive I can
use that for the specific ways of
solving versions microphones yeah which
is really easy task its unity right yeah
beware of the the same time then the
motive well if you need operations
separate I peel the entries for each one
of the operations or if you just want to
have like a big one big up I peel the
entry that keeps changing that contains
the entire states yeah okay and and by
the way out alternate alternatively you
may use we may use an our BTB
there's a that's another stuff using P
of X we just need to discuss on that I
will comment on you know about this and
perhaps you can converge on the specific
CR DT and a notification protocol
solution specific solution either peer
buyers are already
or some minutes also all right thank you
very much for coming and see you soon
she said about the video I want me to
publish yeah please please yeah if you
could polish it and the plate that the
notes with the link it will be awesome
for adding and other people to to watch
the video will do alright thank you bye
guys